# Week 11

# Daemon Process

This week i learn about daemon process, daemon process is a process that intentionally orphaned process and not attached to a terminal. Mostly we can detect the daemon process using `ps` command in the shell. The unique criteria are they don't have a `tty`, their parent is `init` or `systemd` in some system, and we can't interact to that daemon process because it doesn't have an input file descriptor like `stdin`. In other way we can tell it to do something using Linux signals like `SIGHUP`. We create a handler that executed when there is signal come into the process. 

# Daemon Process Creation and Process Group

We can create daemon process using `nohup` command for complete configuration to the process like output redirection, closing `stdin`, and handle the reject `SIGHUP` signal that send to the process . In the implementation `nohup` better used with `&` symbol, so the process will run in the background and we can use the terminal. Beside `nohup` there is `disown` command that used for reject `SIGHUP` signal from the terminal to the process, but don't redirect output from the process or close the `stdin`.

We also can create a daemon process using `setsid()` and `fork()`, first we fork the process, creating a child process, and then the parent process exit and after that we call `setsid()` to create a new session for the process and the process will be the process group leader and now the process is a daemon process.

Process group is a group that contains a set of process with the same Process Group ID. Each process group must have process group leader, process group leader is a process that has same PID an PGID.  Each time we create daemon process,  we need to create a process group leader first. 