# Week 14

In this week, i learn about how we found the driver used by  some hardware attached to our machine and active in the os. We can find the driver used by our hardware in /sys/class/ directory. First we must know the class of our device. In this case, my device is an ethernet adapter so it belongs to the net class, so we need to find my device in the /sys/class/net/. For faster searching we can list our networking hardware using `ip link show` command in the terminal. It will show us the list and name of the networking hardware that have been actived in our OS. After we know the name of the device, we search the folder name that has same name with our device in the /sys/class/net/ and get information about mac address in the `address` file  and the name of the driver in the `./device/driver/module` file. 

The driver can we modify  into some configuration to achieve functionality that we want. We can modify the driver using module param when we inserting the module using `modprobe` command, we must run it in `sudo` mode. If we want to know all the param that available in the driver, we can see the driver code in the linux kernel directory before compilation or we can access the manfacture website for detail documentation, sometimes the website provide an example to use the param.  

Sometimes, not all device already have the driver installed in linux kernel, so we need to install the device manually. In my experience, we can install the driver using `dkms` for automatic configuration for installing driver.